{
  "comments": [
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "c19a9d2d_e2a40a56",
        "filename": "docs/release-process/release-goals.rst",
        "patchSetId": 1
      },
      "lineNbr": 12,
      "author": {
        "id": 7788
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-03-08T01:32:05Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "priority of these goals are in the order they are written ?",
      "revId": "ca5129089f5093cad9acfe37242b502a0596353b",
      "serverId": "7fc14799-209e-464c-9743-7a06c2c21a81",
      "unresolved": false
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "4d5a48b4_27de0252",
        "filename": "docs/release-process/release-goals.rst",
        "patchSetId": 1
      },
      "lineNbr": 101,
      "author": {
        "id": 7788
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-03-08T01:51:16Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I think we should also mention to advertise ODL with academia and doing some collaboration activities with the universities as well.",
      "revId": "ca5129089f5093cad9acfe37242b502a0596353b",
      "serverId": "7fc14799-209e-464c-9743-7a06c2c21a81",
      "unresolved": false
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "6f496d22_842d2a78",
        "filename": "docs/release-process/release-goals.rst",
        "patchSetId": 1
      },
      "lineNbr": 114,
      "author": {
        "id": 7788
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-03-08T01:51:16Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Apart from LFM member company contributing resources, i believe we should put a goal to emphasize on asking existing project contributors to ask for contribution to the existing ODL community and also help them with the on-boarding. That will help in creating a long term healthy community around the projects.",
      "revId": "ca5129089f5093cad9acfe37242b502a0596353b",
      "serverId": "7fc14799-209e-464c-9743-7a06c2c21a81",
      "unresolved": false
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "6089db97_6aead921",
        "filename": "docs/release-process/release-goals.rst",
        "patchSetId": 1
      },
      "lineNbr": 135,
      "author": {
        "id": 7788
      },
      "writtenOn": "2018-03-08T01:51:16Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I think having a per project resource is not a bad idea either, so i would defer it to LFN on how they want to manage it rather than we suggest them.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 134,
        "startChar": 56,
        "endLine": 135,
        "endChar": 31
      },
      "revId": "ca5129089f5093cad9acfe37242b502a0596353b",
      "serverId": "7fc14799-209e-464c-9743-7a06c2c21a81",
      "unresolved": false
    }
  ]
}