ODL-SDNi Developer Guide
========================

Overview
--------

This project aims at enabling inter-SDN controller communication by
developing SDNi (Software Defined Networking interface) as an
application (ODL-SDNi App).

ODL-SDNi Architecture
---------------------

-  SDNi Aggregator: Northbound SDNi plugin acts as an aggregator for
   collecting network information such as topology, stats, host etc.
   This plugin can be evolving as per needs of network data requested to
   be shared across federated SDN controllers.

-  SDNi API: API view autogenerated and accessible through RESTCONF to
   fetch the aggregated information from the northbound plugin – SDNi
   aggregator.The RESTCONF protocol operates on a conceptual datastore
   defined with the YANG data modeling language.

-  SDNi Wrapper: SDNi Wrapper will be responsible for the sharing
   and collecting information to/from federated controllers.

-  SDNi UI:This component displays the SDN controllers connected to each
   other.


SDNi Aggregator
---------------

-  SDNiAggregator connects with the Base Network Service Functions of
   the controller. Currently it is querying network topology through
   MD-SAL for creating SDNi network capability.

-  SDNiAggregator is customized to retrieve the host controller’s
   details, while running the controller in cluster mode. Rest of the
   northbound APIs of controller will retrieve the entire topology
   information of all the connected controllers.

-  The SDNiAggregator creates a topology structure.This structure is
   populated by the various network funtions.


SDNi API Reference Documentation
--------------------------------

 i.    http://${ipaddress}:8181/restconf/operations/opendaylight-sdni-topology-msg:getTopology
        - Fetches the topology data

 ii.   http://${ipaddress}:8181/restconf/operations/opendaylight-sdni-topology-msg:getAllPeerTopology
        -  Fetches the peers topology data

 iii.  http://${ipaddress}:8181/restconf/operations/opendaylight-sdni-qos-msg:get-all-node-connectors-statistics
        -  Fetches the QoS data

 iv.   http://${ipaddress}:8181/restconf/operations/opendaylight-sdni-qos-msg:get-all-peer-node-connectors-statistics 
        -  Fetches the peers QoS data

 v.    http://${ipaddress}:8181/restconf/operations/opendaylight-sdni-wrapper:add-peer-controllers
        -  Configures peer controller to SDNi

 vi.   http://${ipaddress}:8181/restconf/operations/opendaylight-sdni-wrapper:remove-peer-controllers
        -  Removes configured peer controller from SDNi

 vii.  http://${ipaddress}:8181/restconf/operations/opendaylight-sdni-wrapper:get-configured-sdni-peers
        -  Lists the configured peer controllers in SDNi

 viii. http://${ipaddress}:8181/restconf/operations/opendaylight-sdni-wrapper:add-trusted-controllers
        -  Marks controller as trusted 


SDNi Wrapper
------------

-  SDNiWrapper facilitates the peer controller configuration. The controller’s network capabilities through SDNiAggregator are fetched and sent to the configured peer controllers. 


SDNi UI
-------

This component displays the SDN controllers connected to each other.

http://localhost:8181/index.html#/sdniUI/sdnController

