Name
----

Virtual Public Networks ( VPuN)

Repo Name
---------

Please select a Repository (Repo) name for your project. Please keep in
mind it should be:

-  all lower case
-  Short
-  Suitable for use as a java/C identifier like a package name

Description
-----------

Universal access to Internet is crucial. Several initiatives have
recently emerged to enable wider access to the Internet. Public Access
WiFi Service (PAWS) enables free Internet access to all and is based on
Lowest Cost Denominator Networking (LCDNet) â€“ a set of network
techniques that enable users to share their home broadband network with
the public. LCDNet takes advantage of the available unused capacity in
home broadband networks and allows Less-than-Best Effort (LBE) access to
these resources. LCDNet can enable third-party stakeholders, such as
local governments, to setup, configure and operate home networks for
public Internet access in cooperation with Internet Service Providers.
Software-defined networking (SDN) creates new opportunities for the
remote configuration and management of such networks at large scale. We
are proposing to jointly develop between ODL and the (Virtual Public
Networks)VPuN Teams, a VPuN Application that run on ODL controller.
Virtual Public Networks (VPuN) are home networks created, deployed and
managed through an evolutionary SDN control abstraction. This offers
more flexibility to users and network operators, allowing them to share
and control the network, while providing opportunities for new
stakeholders to emerge as virtual network operators.

Scope
-----

The Scope of the project includes, 1. working on creating some API's in
the controller, for the VPuN application echo system to interact and be
able to program. and 2. Build features in the VPuN application that
helps Over the Top operators and end users manage their policies.

Resources Committed (developers committed to working)
-----------------------------------------------------

Abraham Tharak (tharakabraham@gmail.com)

Ahmed Abujoda (ahmed.abujoda@ikt.uni-hannover.de)

Arjuna Sathiaseelan (arjuna.sathiaseelan@cl.cam.ac.uk)

Gopan Govindan (gopan.govindan@paxterrasolutions.com)

Jan Medved (jmedved@cisco.com) - Mentor.

Panagiotis Papadimitriou (panagiotis.papadimitriou@ikt.uni-hannover.de)

Sriram C.S (sriram@paxterrasolutions.com)

Swaraj Vinjapuri (swaraj@cisco.com)

Initial Committers
------------------

Abraham Tharak (tharakabraham@gmail.com)

Ahmed Abujoda (ahmed.abujoda@ikt.uni-hannover.de)

Arjuna Sathiaseelan (arjuna.sathiaseelan@cl.cam.ac.uk)

Gopan Govindan (gopan.govindan@paxterrasolutions.com)

Panagiotis Papadimitriou (panagiotis.papadimitriou@ikt.uni-hannover.de)

Swaraj Vinjapuri (swaraj@cisco.com)

Vendor Neutral
--------------

If this proposal is coming from an existing proprietary codebase, have
you ensured that all proprietary trademarks, logos, product names, etc.
have been removed? Please specify.

Meets Board Policy (including IPR)
----------------------------------
